Neal Sáles-Griffin: Grasp of it. Antoine.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was it something you had already done like you, familiar with it? Had you done it before?
Antoine: Yeah, I'm I'm I've done it before, different different naming conventions, but
Antoine: kind of a similar way. I really like the
Antoine: the audio you know the long interview that they were talking about with the mattress guy mattress purchase. I thought it was a it was a helpful kind of way to make it real. The whole question around like going deep into understanding the the what's what's what's going on?
Antoine: but I feel familiar with the general concept, the value, the how to do it.
Antoine: Now I think practice is in the pudding.
Antoine: Oh, putting the pudding is in the practice, whatever.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I get it. We I think we know what you mean.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's good. So so with that being said like, I guess I wanna I'm I'm outing you a little bit, Antoine, because there's gonna be other people on the call that are less familiar.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I I think it'd be really valuable for those of you who have experience. Having these customer interviews and gaining these insights to help others who are still gaining that experience and building that muscle and getting those reps in. So one thing that ends up happening is this, founders tend to band together to support one another on these fronts, so does anyone else have experience with customer discovery.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm sure all of you have a little taste of it. You started a business. So you've done some version of it already. But I want to know, like different schools of thought, like, I always learn something new every time I meet a new class of founders. Some of you have some cool experience. You're pulling out the woodwork, or something that you have done, or some system that you put in place so just that wanted to open that up again and see what kind of knowledge we're dealing with.
piyushverma: Yeah, we can never.
Vivian: I've never worked with the jobs to be done framework before. When I 1st came up with the idea of Main like, given the fact that my background was in auto. I felt like I knew the answers, but I still wanted to hear it from the customer, so I thought about like who my customers truly were, and I'm trying to understand who my like brand igniters would be, would be so came up with a bunch of different personas and I went on to
Vivian: Facebook groups. And I looked at all of these different, like mommy groups, women, entrepreneurs, people who would look to be buying a new vehicle based on their motivators. And I ended up like just putting out a bunch of questions like, who needs help? Who would like to talk, and I ended up interviewing 300 women that way. And that's how we really got to like the root of what we thought was the problem at that time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Wow, so why why 300?
Vivian: It was it just kind of happened naturally, and it was a number that someone had given us so we just went out there and did it and ended up helping 25 people buy cars through just like that pool of people.
Vivian: And they that's kind of how I became a personal car shopper. I just started asking what their problems were, and naturally just started answering their questions, understanding how they were making decisions. And I started to build like very manual tools, using excel spreadsheets, camera presentations. And that's how I did like my personal car shopping experience. And once it got to a point where I couldn't do it anymore, because it's taking like 5 h per person. I started to automate that with like no code.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's cool. That's really cool. I I love the homegrown
Neal Sáles-Griffin: customer, you know. Discovery experience from scratch to you like, did it almost intuitively because of a of a thing that was important to you. You're like, I just really want to know. So I'm gonna do everything in my power to understand? That's that's the purest form of this, in my opinion. So thank you for sharing that. All right. What's up? Neural defend.
piyushverma: Yeah. So we wanted to share
piyushverma: a recent experience. So we've we've been interacting with some customers
piyushverma: about our Mvp. And one of the strategies we adopted was that
piyushverma: getting them on board as
piyushverma: partners in the process, like telling them that we are not selling you anything right now.
piyushverma: Instead of that, you know, being vulnerable and saying that we are at an early stage, we would love to have your feedback and develop the product along with you.
piyushverma: And like, explicitly saying that you know this is not a sales pitch would love to build it with you.
piyushverma: and and since you are one of the early interactions we are having would love to share the benefits of being the early supporters. So something along those lines. But yeah, this is what we did. And it worked you know. So the client is right now, moving very fast kind of getting the legal team on board to to help us get the Poc.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I I love that you shared that guys, and I'll just reinforce it by saying one thing I learned early on with one of my 1st companies was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: perceiving my 1st customers not only as partners, but almost I mean, I even reframed it as like they're my investor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? They're not. They're not getting equity, but they're getting more value than anyone, because I'm gonna do more for them than anyone. I'll I'll probably ever serve because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're still figuring it out together. So if you make them feel like they're part of the process of your business coming to to to prominence. They tend to get really bought in
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and and that's super helpful. So I'm I'm glad you shared that, too. Alright, Paria.
Paria: Yes, yeah, like, in our experience at optic pop. So basically, the way that we start to like connect with the customers is like sending some cold emails to like many potential customers in our field. And then, after receiving, like most of the time, don't you don't receive, I mean quite a lot of reply from those emails that you send.
Paria: But when we receive some like replies, we set up the like meetings. We talk about? What are their challenges? What are their concerns with their like manufacturing processes? 1st of all, always, the priority for us is to discover what is the kind of challenge that they they have, just understanding that in the 1st intro call.
Paria: So after, I mean, we always like put the 1st Intro call just understanding the customer. Nothing and mentioning about our solution in a very very, very like, you know, surface method, not digging into the like. Our solution in the 1st call. So that give us a little like, make us a little bit like connected to them. And in the next meeting we talk about. Yeah, we are doing this. If you see any like interest about this
Paria: solution, or you want to like, continue the discussion. We are open for the like to continue this. You know this discussion, but the thing is
Paria: as the other team said, like neural defend. We always also start with like saying that we wanna like collaborate with you no selling in the 1st meeting, or even the like second meeting, we always think about like issues, collaboration to make or to kind of make a trust between ourselves and the potential customer. There. That was our experience so far.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's great experience. Thank you.
Paria: Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Meg.
Meg Hall: Yeah. So I have a lot of experience with customer advisory boards. Both running them for tech companies. And then also, I was on the high spot Customer Advisory Board, which is a series F Company so I was on their their customer Advisory Board for 3 and a half years, so I've seen both. I've ran them, and I've also been a part of them.
Meg Hall: And one of the things I was going to bring up is, if you're really interested in like how to ask the right questions. There's a Stanford design school program that they have like a 60 min version that's like on Youtube. That's like how to kind of ask questions that are more in depth, that are kind of getting to the heart of like the problem. So you're not making assumptions. And then we're using this new tool called glider, which basically creates like a lean model canvas. And
Meg Hall: you can say, like all of your assumptions, and then you can like match your customer stories with your assumptions to be able to prove or disprove different things. So that's something that we just implemented like 2 weeks ago. And we're starting to like what's cool about it is it uses AI to create questions that you're gonna ask your prospects, and then it's actually has a zoom like
Meg Hall: like. Add in where you can pull it up, and you can record just that section where you're asking the customer those questions so that you can start to gather feedback that either proves or disproves your hypotheses. So yeah, that's it for me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's awesome. So I have a favor to ask either Meg or someone, glider. And the Youtube video you're talking about. Those are great things to follow up in the base camp. Hq. Schedule on for this event and go. Here's what we like. I brought this up, and Neil asked me to post this here just drop those as a comment underneath the event itself. That's a great contextual example of what I was referring to during the base camp tutorial. Thank you for that. That's awesome. I'm excited to check them out.
Meg Hall: And one of my goals for the program is like, once I'm back in the Bay area, I'm gonna host like these focus groups with product marketing people and then sales leadership where basically, I host like a happy hour. And I'm gonna be doing the same thing. So like, that's something that you guys will probably see me doing a whole bunch during the program because I just wanna be like closer to the customers when I know that there's like a hotspot of people that are in that industry in the Bay area.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool and and and that's that's 1 thing I think that's cool for you to do. I might have something else that. I'm gonna ask you to do from all of this. So we'll see and we'll we'll negotiate the budget for for doing the focus groups versus the the interviews I'm gonna ask of you all as well. So great Ankar.
Ankur Toshniwal: Sorry.
Ankur Toshniwal: yeah. So I actually, well, I I pivoted the 1st product that I was building into what we're building now. And so I had kind of like a user base that I started with, but again solving a different problem. So I actually met my co-founder by sending out a survey to those users. And you know, he responded, it was like, Hey, I think this is actually a big problem. But for a different user group. And so
Ankur Toshniwal: essentially from there on, out started interviewing, started interviewing users and the people who kind of kind of responded to the survey to start with, and I actually, like watched them use their browser to go build
Ankur Toshniwal: data sets that they were using for their daily work, and I recorded it, and I watched them do it, for like, Hey, I need to find the 1st one was a healthcare institution or healthcare tech Startup, who wanted to go, you know, collect all of the conferences for like healthcare tech startups. And I watched him do it. He was like, yeah, I do this 4 HA day. And so I have these recordings on my computer still, and I did it across multiple, you know, various industries. I was like
Ankur Toshniwal: I did. I thought it was just me because I felt the problem first.st And then, after doing a couple of interviews like, hey? I think I'm empowered because I I can. I can build software is like, can I put a prototype together in 2 weeks? Put it in front of those people and then go back again and kind of keep that cycle going between, build, build, super fast, put something
Ankur Toshniwal: bad, but still solves a part of the problem for users. And if they are willing to use a shitty products, sorry. Excuse me, they're willing to use it.
Ankur Toshniwal: A a bad product. Then it probably means that they're they're they're not. They don't. The the problem is severe, and then get them to pay as fast as possible. I think people talk a lot. We ask them to take their credit card out. If they they aren't gonna pay, then, like.
Ankur Toshniwal: you gotta move on or you gotta. You gotta go deeper into solving the problem. So we actually spent a I put a lot of effort into told Andrew to, and he was scared as well as like. No, we need to get people to pay right away like that. Otherwise, we're gonna solve the wrong problem so definitely, I think a part of even the customer. Discovery is getting people to pay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How? How did you know that? How did you know it was important to get people to pay.
Ankur Toshniwal: I made the mistake. I think. I made that mistake early on with my 1st product. I think I took too long to charge people, and by doing that I ended up. I think I built
Ankur Toshniwal: for a convenience and for something that wasn't quite a real pain point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh!
Ankur Toshniwal: For users, and I I could have I could have I mean I had the time I had the resources and and enough capital to do it, but because I didn't charge. I didn't charge people. They didn't tell me their worst problems in some ways. Because they're that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Excellent.
Ankur Toshniwal: Isn't there? And they didn't tell me like, oh, actually, I need pro. I need help with this. This thing here you're solving with this. That's fine. But I need help problem with this, and if I'm paying you, I want you to do that for me, and that's, I think a part of the journey is building super fast, talking to people, charging them as soon as possible.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does anyone like feel differently than that? I'm I'm curious. And there's no one right answer. But like, does anyone have a different reaction when you hear that, because for me, that resonates deeply, and that is my experience. Like having people pay for things tends to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: make it more real, and you get better feedback. But any exceptions to that or different points of view that we were sharing.
Meg Hall: I would definitely just second that that I think people they don't want to hurt your feelings so they'll say yes, or you know it could be priority number 5, and they'll be like, Oh, yeah, I do have that problem. But if it's if it's too far down on the list of priorities. Then they're not gonna actually eventually pay for it. And so you don't want to spend your time revving up something that's like really far down on the thing on the list. So I completely agree.
Meg Hall: And I would, I would say, like, even if you're gonna do a proof of concept, just make it a proof paid proof of concept.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I I know Chris's hands up to share another experience. Perspective. I I for the prompt I just shared. I'm curious to have a few other people speak up before we get to Chris's question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or a comment.
Antoine: Sure Notifications.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think, yeah, Antoine, numeral defend. Yeah.
piyushverma: One of the questions, I think important questions is, where do we draw the line? Because initially, it's important for us to get the 1st few clients on board, even if it's for free, so that there's no friction. You know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why is that important.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, you, you want friction, you you yeah, I agree like you, you actually, you want it to be a big enough problem for them to be like, yeah, I'm willing to even try your thing right now, right? Like, you don't actually want there to be a 0 friction scenario, because that means it's not a severe, and it might mean it might mean it's not a severe enough problem. It could.
piyushverma: But I think
piyushverma: it depends on the space you are like right now we are in a regulatory tech space, which is mostly driven by regulations. So in in India the the regulatory framework around Deepfakes is not so strong as of now as compared to the Us.
piyushverma: Therefore, to get these clients on board right now we have to do a lot of education like, treat them like, train them, and teach them about the importance of what we are building and how it is important for them. And at that point it's a little bit tough to ask them to pay upfront.
piyushverma: So you know. Yeah, I think it's it's a very important discussion. And right now we don't know, you know, whether.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Have you? Have you asked? Have you asked them to pay, or anyone.
piyushverma: We did ask them the the budget that they have for it. But we did not ask
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So so we don't know.
piyushverma: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: That's what I mean.
Ankur Toshniwal: Like, I've I've faced this. I face this a lot. It's a really scary thing to ask to pay. But you're not. We're not building science projects. We're building businesses ideally right. And so.
Ankur Toshniwal: And I very much went against my previous version, which was about building science projects, I think. And these cool things. Which was I think. Yeah, it drives me to the wrong point. And and frankly, then maybe the question might be. Do you want to sell to those people
Ankur Toshniwal: right like, maybe there's easier users to sell to? Maybe there's just like a small 10 person company that's building super fast. They don't have as much regulation issues right? And maybe you need to find those people who are a little easier to sell to because you're not going to close the the highly regulated people right? It's just they're not gonna trust you. Right now. And so there is some. There's a process of being like, Yeah, I gotta filter out people bad. There's bad customers. And that's a weird thing. But bad customers are real.
piyushverma: Yeah, I think it's it's kind of a catch 22 problem at this stage. We are right now. We don't even know
piyushverma: who will pay for this like what? What all use cases we'll be serving in the future. Therefore these calls are also kind of important for us to know what the industry wants. Therefore, yeah, it's a it's a tough.
piyushverma: tough thing, a tough.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Have no fear.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've got you alright. I I see your potential, and I will make sure that you make money.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That is my job. Now.
Meg Hall: Connect you guys with a rep who used to work for idverse, which is kind of the same thing as what you're guys doing he left there, so I think he'll speak very openly about the struggles in the market fit that they found. But I think I have some connections that can help you guys supercharge that like, I think that their customers are like uber and stuff, and like only fans and stuff. So I think I have an idea of how you guys can supercharge getting there.
piyushverma: So I think that'll be great. I I diverse kind of people are kind of companies are the real sweet spot for us right now.
Meg Hall: So the connection is. He was. He ran like they're a bunch of their teams, and now he's left, so he'll talk freely.
piyushverma: Thank you so much. I'll I'll circle back to you about it.
piyushverma: Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm I'm I'm just relishing and enjoying you all already, being super helpful to one another. I'm like, yes, the plan is in in progress already.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Antoine, I know you had spoken up. If you wanted.
Antoine: Yeah, no, I. So- so 90%,
Antoine: you have to have them pay. Now, there are exceptions in my in my, and I think you've articulated one, which is, I know they are not ready to pay now, but I know they will be on my bet is that at some point they will be ready to pay because of some sort of external factor that you trust is going to happen.
Antoine: Regulation, whatever whatever. So, and I and I need to be early enough, etc. Which to me is a little bit of a of a possibility. You'd better be right because otherwise. But but that's I think it's a fair. It's a fair kind of a reason not to ask.
Antoine: because, no matter, the question is not there today. But you're fairly confident it will be there tomorrow, and whatever you'll get today in terms of their willingness to pay is going to be misleading because the pain is not real. The other one is back to the the point that Anthony and Team were talking about is when you're in a multi-sided place
Antoine: where the user, the payer, might not be exactly the same person, and you're solving a pain for one of the market participants, and it's going to be funded by another market participant. Just be clear about that. You're testing. And it happens to be a market participant that you're not expecting to be paying at some point. You need someone to pay at some point for something.
Antoine: and and that that will will come. And so I think these are the 2 exceptions I see to that rule. But I do think it's a it's a rule, and for us that's what we've what we've done.
Antoine: and happy to elaborate on any of this. But I don't. I'm sure it's not the point. I I just wanted to kind of clarify this to me. These these are 2 very valid exceptions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me just offer up one reinforcing point to that, Antoine. What you all are doing right now. Don't ever feel like you're speaking in excess.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I hope you realize like we're still getting to know each other. And we're we're, you know, knocking the rust off of our own knowledge and sharing things. But the most important and beneficial thing is going to be recognizing the knowledge that exists across the class. Because I'm not going anywhere. You guys can hear from me as much as you want. But it's really important for us to start to understand what we can learn from one another. So thank you for for being open and and speaking up so much. This is really really helpful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right, let's hear from Anthony.
Anthony De Silva: Yep, so I guess my perspective here is that it really depends on the product and the situation. It's
Anthony De Silva: I. I agree with Antoine, I think 9, 80 to 90% of the time you should be charging your customers. If there's a clear case of value, add or benefit that you're providing.
Anthony De Silva: for example, like in our home inspections, there's a clear case we are providing repair price estimates. We're providing an easy to read report. So we're going to charge those customers.
Anthony De Silva: But a couple of weekends ago we were so to get in front of our customers. What we do is we also go to open houses because we identify like realtors, are a repeat source of referrals or repeat customer for us.
Anthony De Silva: So we were talking to one of the realtors. And now this guy is also a property manager. He does
Anthony De Silva: about 10 move in, move out inspections. He does it through another company. We don't. We didn't even have a product for it. And we
Anthony De Silva: he loved that he loved that we were doing this for home inspections. And so we within a within like 3 days we came up with a product for him, just specifically for him to try us out to do rental inspections, and the we were not going to send an inspector out. It was just going to be us, because you don't really need a license, inspector, for, like moving, move out inspections. So we came up with something, and we showed it to him. We couldn't charge him for it.
Anthony De Silva: because it was something that we built based on his feedback. He already had a a process in place. He had a company that he was working with.
Anthony De Silva: So what we wanted to show him was what we can do for him and the level of customer service that we can provide, and like being closer to him and building the product customized to him. So in that case, I don't think you can really charge the customer, because that you're building based on his feedback based on requirements, or you're trying to capture a market that he's he already has a product that's working for him.
Anthony De Silva: So we are trying to just capture that it. It's a little tricky if you can. I don't.
Ankur Toshniwal: I wasn't. I wasn't saying like there's no pure like I. We spent like 2 weeks. It took 2 weeks for us to for me to build the thing and put it in front of people, and it didn't charge people right away. And then it took another like 3 weeks for me to get it hosted and and put up like the full thing, but it was like charging as fast as possible to paying users. So you know I agree there is some level of time where you need that. But definitely like the idea is to get there as fast as possible.
Anthony De Silva: 100% 100%.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would like to offer up one tweet to what I heard you say, Anthony. And this is just a very subtle thing, but I promise you investors pick up on this when founders speak the wrong way about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You said charge customers to be clear.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That is almost a redundant statement.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because the whole notion of a customer is that they're paying.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think what you meant was, charge a user or or something along those lines. Right language wise, but one really sneaky thing that founders tend to do that tends to be a dead giveaway on the Vc. Side is when you say
Neal Sáles-Griffin: paying customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we're always like, wait, what do you mean? Paying customer? What is a customer? There's a customer, not the person who's paying you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so just know, like, it's really important that all of you get on the same page about knowing to like frame things as a distinguished terminology. And I didn't actually think it was important in this day and era for that to be emphasized so much.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But during the investment committee that you all were being selected for Brad Feld himself, co-founder of techstars, I remember, called that out in multiple sessions with other Mds that were presenting companies. And when they said, oh, well, you know, they've got these like, you know, these paying customers like, wait, what do you mean? Paying customers?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it it's literally I've seen it come up recently. And I I just think it's really important to to not mislead anyone that you're trying to get on board by saying, you have something that you don't so when people claim that they have customers and what they mean are users that aren't paying them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That could be a red flag.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool. Alright, Trina! Alex Antoine! And then, Chris, back to you. I have not forgotten about you, my friend.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool.
Trina Das: Okay. So I absolutely like, you know. Second, what Neil, you just said, and with everyone that has shared so far. But I do believe that you know we can. We have to charge customers.
Trina Das: But this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm gonna fix you. You just said it again. You just said charge customers.
Trina Das: No, no! What I mean is like, you know, charge as in like we have to bill customers. Of course.
Trina Das: But what I mean is that that may not be. I mean I'm I might be wrong, but that may not be in terms of like, you know, money always.
Trina Das: It could be like, you know. Sometimes I would like to give a big customer like a big potential customer something for free. If I'm getting something in value for my business, for example, say, for example, they are adding to the credibility of the company, which, like, you know, increases our value in the market, or if they are adding, like, you know.
Trina Das: the usage, or something like, you know, which I'm getting from that customer which adds to like real value to my company. I don't mind like, you know, calling them a customer, and like, you know, making them a like, you know, getting something out of them. So I think the idea about
Trina Das: the customers. It has to be something like we have to create value. And I think as long as we are creating value, I think having a customer creating value for the business, I think is a good place, like, you know, to be in. Be it money, be it time, be it like, you know, feedback to better our products or to like, you know, help us establish our brand in the market.
Trina Das: whatever it is, but.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Katrina. Sorry to jump in. I just want to clarify like the point I think we were just making, or I was just trying to make might contend with what you're saying in the sense that, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you can give something away to establish credibility or something like that. If it. If you think that helps? But that's not a customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can't like that. That that doesn't mean that they're a customer, and that doesn't actually validate that. What you're offering to them is actually valuable to them.
Trina Das: But also.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'd say yes.
Trina Das: What I mean is like, does it only have to be like charging like I mean, like, does it only have to be like charging the customers, or can.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's your what's your definition of a customer
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like? What does? What does it mean to have a customer.
Trina Das: A line item on my balance sheet, like, you know, someone who's giving me, I mean, not on balance sheet, but like one line item on, like, you know, my revenue sheet. Yeah. So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right. So so if I'm if I'm having, if I'm raising capital, let's say, coming out of techstars. And I'm saying I have these customers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like it. It's gonna be important to document. And for the investors to see that these people, you say, are customers paid you something, and that you can represent that somewhere, right.
Trina Das: Yeah, okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's that's a different thing than I think. What you're referring to.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah.
Trina Das: Got it. Okay.
Alex Nativelle: Oh!
Trina Das: But sometimes there are like big clients who, might be very difficult to crack like a really big enterprise.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So.
Trina Das: Are you saying that if we are having kind of like a like a deal where, like we are doing like a free pilot, not like a free pilot, but maybe, like a very discounted pilot it can still be our customer right? Because they're paying something, but may not be the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, yeah, that's fine. That discounted pilot is is a is a known thing for sure. And and that tends to work. I would argue, you know, there's different ways to do it, and that discounted pilot might be more of a trade off than like. Let's just say offering up some kind of guarantee
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right like. If if you're not happy with this, if we didn't deliver and make it worth what we're charging you, then we'll give you the money back, or some of it. There's a lot of ways to slice it up, but we'll work with you on how to frame that and think about that.
Alex Nativelle: On on that.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, I wanted to share a a quick story on that, because I felt it was relevant to the discussion. We read a lot of things about like you should charge high for your customers, and like that, you know, on Linkedin you. You hear that all the time. And I was like, All right, all right, okay. And we actually have a lot of paying users. But for at the beginning we had a few of our customers were very like
Alex Nativelle: establishing credibility for us, you know. Like, if we had them to talk to other clients, but we charge them very low. So it's very discounted, let's say.
Alex Nativelle: because they said, Okay, we didn't have any budget. We really want to work with you, but we're going to do everything for you, you know. Give you feedback.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Excuse me.
Alex Nativelle: People blah blah blah blah blah.
Alex Nativelle: So we. So there's they are paying. But you know not a lot. So we said, Yes, of course like that. We established credibility and stuff like that. And we realized that those people were the absolute worst
Alex Nativelle: which is crazy because we give them like a favor right?
Alex Nativelle: But they they took forever to start. They don't give much feedback.
Alex Nativelle: They're not in it, right? We have people who pay a lot. And they're like, Okay, come on, let's do that. We're going to work with you to add more things to the product and stuff like that, because they're you know they're skin in the game right? Like they're really with you.
Alex Nativelle: And the people who, you know, have a lot less buying power and stuff like that were the people who really drilled us on cybersecurity, data, privacy, a whole bunch of like legal stuff like they had it close to the contract. All of those kind of little things that no other customers did.
Alex Nativelle: So I was like, Okay, this is like Linkedin. You told me I didn't believe you, but now I really believe you so on my part, I think that the lesson is learned, and Antoine told me a lot of times like we need to charge them. And I think, yeah, he was right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, guys like this is human behavior.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. So all of us, everybody on this call, I know if there's something you receive for free.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you are more likely to treat it differently than if you pay for it.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: By and large, right for for 9 times out of 10 you get something for free, you handle it and you treat it, and you value it differently than if you had to actually pay hard money for it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and choose I'm gonna make a trade off
Neal Sáles-Griffin: instead of something else to spend my money on right now, I'm gonna spend money on this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So your commitment to it changes the involvement that you have with how seriously you take it, and what you take advantage of from it changes, and that psychology exists for each one of your customers as well. And I mean that even in the b 2 b context. One big mistake the founders tend to make is, they think, oh, well, I'm b 2 b, so like it's not a person. No, it is a person
Neal Sáles-Griffin: someone's still gonna say, yes, a human is still involved. Multiple people are involved in in being bought into the decision to utilize what they're purchasing from you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So keep that in mind. That's super important. I'm gonna reinforce that point every single day throughout this program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah. So one thing we tactic we use especially in the early stages of our product. And still now to to a degree.
Andrew Fernandes: If we are getting pushed back and saying, Yeah, it's just not there yet. It's not, doesn't do all the things we needed to do. Then I'll say, Okay, let's do this.
Andrew Fernandes: What are the things you would need to do to pay for it? And how much would you pay for it at that stage and make a list, and we take down how much they say they pay for it. And we say, Okay, I will sign you up for an annual contract at that price.
Andrew Fernandes: and your subscription will not start until those features are delivered. So we have the cash in the bank from them. They're invested. And there's basically risk free to them because we guarantee delivery. And no, we're off to the races and actually building something. We know that they want.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think that's a great example, Andrew. And I wanna I wanna raise you. Okay, I'm gonna raise you one because I like that. And that's the direction that I think a lot of successful companies start with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The the evolution of that that I take pride in making sure I graduate. All of my founders with the skill set of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is to not only address what they say they want from you that they're willing to pay for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there are also things that they don't know that they need, that you figure out that you offer to them that they end up paying you more for
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay, there's a deeper like sweet science here that goes beyond just hit. Customer told me they need something. I build it, and they pay me. And instead going. No, I know them better than they know themselves
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like I've I've gotten to the bottom of certain things that they actually don't even see yet that when I they get it from me, they're gonna
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they're gonna never imagine a world where they couldn't have this anymore.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, that's the level. That's the level like. That's how the real ones succeed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's what I give you and and everyone else here, hopefully, if I do my job right.
piyushverma: So I have a question for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, sure, sure! Go ahead! Who is that? Who's.
piyushverma: I think it's a great idea to ask them what
piyushverma: what they want, and exactly build fill the gaps and then deliver the product. But but I.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm saying that that actually isn't necessarily the right approach. But just just so you know what what I'm responding with there. But.
piyushverma: Yeah. My my question is, when you, when you ask them, you tell us you know what all you want us to build, and also tell us how much you'll pay. What if they say something ridiculously? You know low.
piyushverma: then what what.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, I'm
Neal Sáles-Griffin: well, here's the thing. Of course they're going to tell you something low. What do you mean like if you ask someone, hey? Are you? What are you? What are you willing to pay for this? Oh, I'm $5.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, that's very different than saying, Oh, that that's a really good looking, smoothie you're making over there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, yeah, it's good. You want to buy it. Yeah, I want to buy it. All right. What's $15? $15! Well, how good is the smoothie? What's in it?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are the ingredients? Tell me more?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So so all of a sudden the price varies
Neal Sáles-Griffin: them. Telling you some vague answer of what they're willing to pay is mostly bullshit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what's very important is for you to understand the context in their situation. Because one person who wants to buy that smoothie will only pay you $5. Someone else would pay you $30,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: depending on their situation and what they need at that time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's not just a 1. Size fits all figure out a price. It's all about knowing more about the context of the buyer themselves to actually effectively price your product to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: make sense.
piyushverma: Yeah, I mean, but my question is in any negotiation tactic. I mean, I I read this book called never split that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What the difference? Yeah. Chris, Voss, yeah.
piyushverma: That book. They say, whenever you go for negotiation, just put your ideal price upfront so that it's a psychological benchmark. And then the entire negotiation starts from that point. But if we let them tell the price, the initial price, isn't it? Aren't we letting them set the benchmark? And then the entire negotiation sets around that.
piyushverma: you know. So I mean, it's a it's a just a there's no right or wrong.
Andrew Fernandes: I. I have a way. One way you can handle this, particularly if you're one of your value propositions is saving them time. You ask them, how much time does this cost you, and how much do you value your time?
Andrew Fernandes: And if they say they don't value their time much.
Andrew Fernandes: I don't know what they're doing.
Andrew Fernandes: so they're they're incentivized to give a high number and how much they value their time. And then you can just back into a number of how much is valuable to them, based on how much time you're gonna save them. Or in the case of you guys where it's like.
Andrew Fernandes: if they don't, if they're not compliant, or whatever it may be. Do you like having your company? How much you value your company?
Andrew Fernandes: I mean, I'm I'm gonna be that blunt, but something to that effect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is great guys, I'll I'll pile on and add one other quick thing here. But one like we're we're getting all of this out right now, which I love. Like I, I am. Actually, this is a part of the workshop is what we're discussing currently. So this is all going according to plan but what I'll add to it is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you should know, going into before that conversation begins, what you want to price
Neal Sáles-Griffin: your product does so. The notion of negotiating is is an exercise that you may have to entertain, especially for every single company. Here's B, 2 B for your context. But just know that you have a range already of how you're valuing what you're offering.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you have a a floor and probably a a floor and a ceiling of what you think. You can agree to going in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so we'll help you with that, too, Meg.
Meg Hall: Did Chris go? Yet I feel like he's had his hand up for a while.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, well, Chris is actually gonna share his experience. He raised his hand before the prompt, that activated 10 hands come up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is really cool.
Chris Wong: Yeah. Don't mind. I'm patient.
Meg Hall: Okay, I was just gonna add, so when I left and my advice is primarily for enterprise, right? If you guys are selling into Enterprise tech companies right when I left my last company I talked to the Cfo. And I was like, how much should I charge for this thing? And he was like, probably between 15 to 25,000 for it. And he's like, because any like major company can cut like any kind of Vp. Can normally cut a check that size
Meg Hall: on something that they want to try out. And it's low enough that they're not going to be putting you through like a really high scrutiny threshold, and they're kind of willing to like if it doesn't work out like Oh, well.
Meg Hall: you know, like they don't have as much pressure about like, you know, if it's an erp integration that costs, you know, 2 million dollars, there's like a lot of pressure that has to be super successful.
Meg Hall: Between 15 to 25,000 is the price that he said, and he said, anything less than that is just considered like a toy, and they won't take you seriously, like they won't actually have, like the adoption and things like that that you want to have.
Meg Hall: And then the other story I wanted to share was we had gotten connected with. It was a Department of Defense company that was like a small department of defense company, but like they just have big budgets. And so when they started talking to us about like their proposals that they wanted at first, st I was like, Oh, yeah, you guys can. We'll do a proof of concept with you for 3 months for $30,000, right? And they're like, Okay, yeah, sure, that sounds cheap.
Meg Hall: And then I was like. So then, as it kept going, scope, creep of what they wanted, it ended up growing to like 300,000, and it was going to be over the course of 3 years, and that, like we were trying to go for a full sale like we were going to build the product that they wanted, because nothing else existed in the market for them, and they were fully willing to cut the check for the $300,000 for us to build them their ideal solution. Right? So I was completely selling the cost of us building it, and we got all the way to like
Meg Hall: meeting with their CEO and their head of it. And then basically, egos got in the way. And the it guy cut it because he was like, I have my other, my own people. I want to do this right. But my point is is, if they really have a real pain for it, and, like the entire company is on board, you can get them to pay for it, and they're willing to hand over the IP to you.
Meg Hall: and but still pay for it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a cool example. I I appreciate you sharing that story, mate. That's helpful to hear, and and it's a good lesson in being careful with the nuance of of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: potentially over engineering and or building up a big enough, too big of a contract or opportunity, when it might either, you know, fall over, or you know it reaches a level of of debate or scrutiny that might end up, you know, losing the deal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Chris, I didn't forget about you, man. I I know your hand dropped, but I wanna hear from you, and then we can get Trina to comment as well.
Chris Wong: Oh, yeah, mine. Mine's gonna be somewhat quick. I have also some questions. Everyone. What everyone's saying is super helpful, because we're currently in this stage. So this is like a really impactful one for us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, my next prompt. Just so, you guys know, is, what do you want to know? So I'm what we? This prompt is, what do you know? And then, now I want to know what I want to know. So the fact that you have questions is the perfect segue.
Chris Wong: Okay, cool. I guess from my experience mine's a short one. I before, before working on the startup, I learned I worked with a Yc backed company. And they use the moms test, which is like a book that gives you like tactical, like questions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who's who's read that book here? Anybody read the mom test all right, like a like a quarter of people. Okay.
Chris Wong: Yeah, I have a free version. If anyone wants it, I'll just like send it to you if you need. But I thought that was really helpful, because it's like it gives you a frame of mind and really doing these customer discovery kind of calls. It's a it's a it's you build a habit into it, and you correct yourself, and I know I fall into like questions off the time like asking. Oh, would you buy something or things about the future that really don't really give me any answers on, like what I'm trying to solve. So you always want to
Chris Wong: anchor on the past what they've done before. But yeah, it was just a small tidbit there. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, well, Chris, if I can just comment because I do almost every single time I've done this workshop, the the mom test that that book reference comes up, and without being too
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think heavy handed about it. What I'll say is like, if there were a sequence or chain of events. When it came to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you, all's progression as customer discovery experts which
Neal Sáles-Griffin: most, if not all, of you, will hopefully be by the end of my program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The mom test is kind of like. I would say, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would say, it's either Pre K. Or grade school. And then the progression is into high school, which might be, like you, all applying to techsars and doing that exposure to jobs I gave you. And now we're starting college
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? Which is the level of of rigor and depth. I want to take you through in the next couple of weeks, and then, by the end of program coming out of program as you start to grow your business and you work with me in a more in depth way on some of these techniques as you scale.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's grad school
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with level like customer discovery, like customer discovery, has layers and levels of depth and like professionalism. And there's people who, at the top of their game. Who are doing this for 6 figure contracts for big businesses
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the techniques
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cascade down like it's a waterfall. So from the beginning of the mom test ideas of how to ask questions and think about it all the way to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: working with companies like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Apple, let's say, to implement actual like customer discovery techniques at that level. There's a whole pathway that all of you will hopefully go down to understand what that looks like, and to build more of that muscle.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I appreciate you sharing that, Chris. That was great, Trina.
Trina Das: Yeah. So basically, I have never, like, you know, had a business where we like, you know, had a user who never paid us like, we always had, like, you know, paying users in all, my businesses, this is actually, my 3rd startup
Trina Das: in this startup, one of the things that I realized is when we were going out as like an Indian company when we were not in the Us. To us labs it was a huge challenge to convince them that we could be their partner to solving that like, you know, their model and data challenges. And we wanted to. And we went to them when we didn't even have a product. Right? So how we went to them was like, you know, we offered them
Trina Das: complete services to build a model that they require, and instead of charging them for development, we actually charge them on, like, you know, per data processed by the like in a model. So what that did for us was we could show them that, you know, on per unit of imaging data, they are able to save a certain amount, and we are
Trina Das: charging only a fraction of that. And what that helped us is that, like, you know, for one small lab, they had a volume of 20,000 images.
Trina Das: and it gave like, you know, it made us, like, you know, get like a $32,000 pilot very easily where we charge.
Trina Das: 10,000 upfront for the development training, like, you know, of the like, you know model. And then for 20,000 data process, I think that actually helped us when we got to, the customer understood how much they're spending. And if there is something transactional that we can get into like a transactional model where we can get into and charge a fraction of the value that we are creating for them. I think that has helped us a lot
Trina Das: and that like, I think that will be our revenue model. Exactly how much we are we are going to charge. I'm not sure. Right now we are charging like very discounted, like, you know, price. But we are still figuring that out, but I think we are on to something with this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Good. Okay, yeah, I'm I'm I'm grateful you shared that. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to tie a bow on all of this. Let's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: give me just a quick like rundown of anything you feel like. You have a curiosity about with this, because there's what I think you need to know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And there's what you actually need. And we're gonna close that gap hopefully in the next hour before I let you all go. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what open questions? If any of you all have about customer discovery. Do you feel like you've got a plan in place? And you know what you're gonna do, regardless of whatever techstars asks of you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: anything you're hoping to learn.
Alex Nativelle: I think for me, the thing I'm hoping to learn is really deep diving. And so, like a practical advices, I think we have a lot of theory. Now, probably we have a lot more, I think. What would be great would be like simulations of something. And you tell me, or even like we
Alex Nativelle: record something that we're gonna do during the program or while we Sf, and then we listen to it together. And we're like, There, you did this mistake. There you did that one there you did. You should have asked this one, or something like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Clear. Alex, yeah, Alex, I I love that. You're saying this. So everything that I'm gonna have you all do with what I'm sharing is gonna be applicable to your business, and I'm expecting you to apply it to it so that we can talk about the work.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're not doing any theoretical stuff in this program at all. Everything is yeah. It's all additive. It's all like the like a case study, or whatever like that's for business school like this is, this is like no like, how does this add value to my company right now? And how can I implement this into my company's processes? Right? Now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I, got you on that front yeah
Alex Nativelle: I lost you get me wrong. But yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean. I I mean, I do, too. I'm faculty right at university. But the the kids they get, they get the the idea of a business. You all have real business. I love it.
Paria: Yeah, can I? Yeah, I have a kind of question or a point here. I wanted to learn about when it comes to customer discovery. So what is the like appropriate strategy here? Should we like as a startup company? Do you recommend that we start the like small scale companies as our potential customers, and then we gradually reach out to the like bigger and bigger companies. That's something which I think is.
Paria: we'll still also know about that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So the the phrase that I will teach you all about this is what I refer to as screening criteria.
Paria: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we will. We will go into depth about that, because there's no one clear answer to your question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My intuition is that you start small and you go bigger, but maybe not depending on what you need to learn, and depending on what you want your business to become. There's all types of questions and trade offs that are individualized for each of your situations, that we'll have to walk you through to answer that question. But that's a really good question.
Paria: I I actually there are the reason which I kind of asked this question is that in the past we had this kind of experience with our like customers. So in initially, we were approaching to like the big players in the manufacturing sector like talk, trying to talk to like a spacex, or like NASA, and talking about the solution that we are offering.
Paria: And we saw there a little bit, I mean, they were trying to get a little bit like backward, instead of like showing some tendency to learn about the product.
Paria: And then we we kind of give it the like direction in a way that we started working with the smaller scale companies, and it did work a little bit better, so we could
Paria: kind of capture their attention. Their trust towards the like, the solution or the product that we are offering. And then it I mean, that was the experience that we got it. But again, moving to those key players is still a big step for us. We are not there yet. So learning about how we have to move there, that's something which I love to learn about that during this workshops as well or later. Yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, came on. And just so, you know, there's this is at least a 3, if not a 4 part workshop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is part one of 3 or 4 depending on how far we go together in each of the sessions. I've got a lot to share about this, and there's a few bonus sessions throughout the program as well. So don't you worry. We'll go as deep as we need to go. Alright. What else do we want to know.
piyushverma: Question. I have a.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'll do, Neil defend. And then Trina, yeah, go ahead, Nordefin.
piyushverma: Yeah, yeah, I'm sure. You know, like, we are building and solution for identity production, you know, like big, all the bigger players. You know our set of customers there. They may build their product in those itself, right? So how? How we should be approach to those kind of customers, you know, like the customer having. They are like a kind of big player. It's a very
piyushverma: like within 6 months they can build a product. That's similar, like what we are doing. Actually. So
piyushverma: so what should be our approach? How? How we can deal them? And should we deal them, or should we go to the, you know, like a title companies who.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, great, great, great! That's a great example of something that you want to learn how to do. And I'm sure people in the room already have ideas and thoughts and experiences they can draw from the help I know I do, too, case in point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a reason why some of the most successful companies on Earth acquire other businesses.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: even though they have the capacity to build it themselves. Quote unquote. There's things that you can do and focus on that. Those other companies can't
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so one quick analogy for you is to think of that big, bigger business you're trying to sell to like you say they're a yacht, and you're a speedboat
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? There's things that you can quickly navigate to and get done. Product wise that they might be able to do as well, but it might take them longer. They may have different priorities, they may, you know, go slower with the approach. It may cost them more because of the team that they have to organize to get it done. So them working with you might be a worthy trade off if you position it properly, and put the right protections in place, so that you have some kind of mode
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to further defend the business when it comes time to then making the trade off of. We could build this ourselves. But is it worth the cost relative to working with neural defend? But we'll get there, so I'll talk to you guys more about that individually, too. But that's a great question. I love that.
Chloe Lannert: Neil.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Vivian. Oh, sorry! Go ahead, Chloe.
Chloe Lannert: Do you want to take a look at Chris's question in the chat? I love that question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not monitoring it right now. Let me see.
Chloe Lannert: So should we be thinking about this session as customer discovery versus user discovery. Part of the ask is because we're building something that doesn't exist in the market. So no, no current customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's so we we like to think that that's true. And that could be true. Right? Non consumption is what the term we would use to say, Yeah, this is like, no customers exist in this category. Yet we're inventing a new category of customer. I would argue
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that you may not be, and that there's things that they're doing right now to make progress in the way that you're hoping to supplant or replace.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And our job is to understand
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what they're doing now as best we can, and what the cost might be for them to switch over into what you're hoping that they they start to adopt
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so that being said, we're here to build a business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So on one end, yes, you are doing user discovery because you're gonna build a product or platform that people will use whether they're paying for it or not. But at the end of the day
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a business is something that makes money
Neal Sáles-Griffin: earns revenue and ultimately can become profitable. So I want to make sure that you do the work to understand who that eventual customer is as well, regardless of how long it's gonna take for us to acquire them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Even it could be years from now. But we need to have a thesis. Now about how we become profitable, and that's gonna help you as particularly with an investor narrative.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool, Vivian.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, I would. I would also add that Chris, like, you're probably not measuring like, maybe the solution doesn't exist. But if you're solving a problem or category that doesn't exist yet. Then maybe the problem doesn't exist too. Right? Like, you're trying to solve a particular problem. So there's other ways of measuring the problem than just
Ankur Toshniwal: you know. Hey, this solution doesn't exist. That's fine. But people are wasting time doing these things. And you actually seem like when you presented it. You actually knew, like, how much time people are spending on this and whatever. So you do have a way of measuring the severity of the problem. Even if the solution doesn't exist, they're putting together maybe 3 other things, and they create their solution. You're giving them a better one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well to refine that, to refine that a little bit more cause. I appreciate you sharing that anchor
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as I'm reading your question now, Chris, in the chat, part of the ask is because we're building something that doesn't exist in the market. So no current customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's less about what you're building.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and more about what they are doing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right and what they need, and if what they need isn't being addressed at all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: then it could be alarming to say, we're going to make something that they're going to start paying for, that they haven't been paying anything for up until now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a some sort of cost or sacrifice or trade off. They're currently going through that. It's your job to understand what they're currently doing to address.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the frame of mind I want you to have about this. So it's less about my solution. And whether a version of what I'm building exists, that they have now for me to learn from, and instead going, what is their need? How is it being met, addressed, or ignored, or tolerated currently
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and based on that? Can I insert something that that's going to make their day something that's going to delight them and save them so much time and money that they'll never turn back.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's our job together.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, Vivian.
Vivian: I think, for our case in auto. This is an industry that they're willing to spend the money. They're willing to try new things, and they're willing to spend at least anywhere from 500 to a thousand every single time to try something new. So we we understand that behavior which is great, and I think when we started pitching it to dealerships.
Vivian: the management get it right away. But then what we really quickly learn is like we have to balance and learn from multiple different stakeholders. And the car buying journey is like very complex. So we're only solving one portion of it. And I think we are trying to. And what we would love to learn is like, how do we continue that customer discovery? Because now we've discovered new entry points new stakes.
Vivian: And how does that impact our product roadmap? Because I think sometimes we get a lot of great feedback, and we start adding to it, and one of the things I talked about before was
Vivian: like, we have, you know, great initial numbers, and then, whenever they hit a roadblock in the product. We see our usage go down. So we start building things that they ask for because we think it's gonna solve the problem of their their usage behavior. But it's not necessarily we haven't found like that one moment in time where it's like, okay, we've gotten to that point in the product roadmap where everything makes sense to them. We keep learning more things that are getting in the way.
Vivian: So there's just a lot of complexity. And we're trying to figure out like maybe a problem for us to be able to identify.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Awesome. And and if I do my job right, everyone
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the way that you're gonna approach customer discovery
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for the rest of your life
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with this business in the next
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is, it's going to be integrated into how you operate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's never gonna be a question of when do I do it? It's a perpetuity. It's like, always, if I'm building a business, I'm getting customers, and I'm serving customers. If I'm getting and serving customers, I'm learning about them. I'm understanding them all the time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It never ends. And you're always learning things that are new. You never just are a static person with the business that just sells itself for the rest of your life.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that will happen, Vivian, if I do my job right
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool. Alright. So here's what I'm gonna do, because we're already 65 min into a 2 h session which I love. This is by far the most in-depth conversation I've had to kick off this workshop
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 13 years of doing these. I've never had an hour go by of us just talking to each other about it before I start. But that literally just happened. So I'm like taking a second going. Whoa! We just did that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my last question before we take a quick break, I'm gonna give you guys a 5 min break so that you can knock the rust off. Go to the bathroom, check your email if you're not too distracted because I need you all to be focused for this first.st you know, set of information I want to share. My last quick question is, from what I've already asked you to do, meaning you applied to techstars. You watch the mattress interview. You did some jobs to be done, interviews you shared all the experiences you have so far.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do you strongly agree with or strongly disagree with, that hasn't already been shared, and if you've already shared it, don't say anything. We're fine, but I need this last prompt to to finish my little diagnostic here on the back end.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any strong agreements or disagreements from what you've heard or read so far.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Antoine.
Antoine: I don't know if it's exactly an answer. So I won't repeat that I fully agree, kind of broadly and generally and deeply into everything that has been said. Where I have a disagreement or possibly a disagreement, is
Antoine: this, this needs, this needs real work, and this needs. This is real time invested.
Antoine: and it is a worthwhile time investment.
Antoine: But picking the right people to talk to the right context.
Antoine: to make sure that because this is a deep and worthy investment of time is really, I think, is is really critical.
Antoine: And and I think again, I don't know if it's a disagreement, but there's a little bit of okay. We need to be very, very thoughtful in terms of who we speaking with and what we're telling them about, or what we're asking them about and it starts with quality conversations and and and as opposed to kind of thinking of it as a big time investment that's going to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Antoine: On lots of different people. And again, I don't think it's a disagreement
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Antoine, you're making a great point I'm gonna build on. I'm I'm with you. We're we're jazz right now. So this is this is awesome. So what I'll say is this, I actually have a quick prompt that you've inspired. Now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how many interviews do you all think? Just give me a number
Neal Sáles-Griffin: feel free to shout it out or drop it in the chat. How many interviews do you think I'm going to need you to do during this program for us to get that high quality insight that Antoine's referring to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Just give me a rough number or a guess as to what you think the right number of interviews might be.
Antoine: Think if they're well chosen under 10 is is how many definitely.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's your number? You just give me a number, and I have something to say afterwards. What's your number, Antoine?
Antoine: 9.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 9. Okay. Any other numbers.
Trina Das: 15.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 15, I heard. Well, Vivian did 300
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Faria. You got one.
Paria: 200.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 200, any other numbers. Come on.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, Chris said. A 100 in the chat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Chris said, a hundred.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: 400.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He says, 400. Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: come on. I want to hear from you guys. I need to know this. I need to know what you think, and as many as it take a look at Mark. Look you took. That's that's cheating, Mark.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a fair answer, actually. But it's it's still cheating. Give me a number.
Chloe Lannert: 15.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so here's what I've learned. And this is more of the inside baseball on the Vc side, because I've worked at a lot of Vcs over the years and worked with many Vcs most of them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we'll bulk at. I think the numbers that most of you shared some said 9, some said 10, some said 15. Some of you said 100 400. I think the hundreds is the number range
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that Vcs are looking to hear. For the most part I I know this because in due diligence I hear them say that. Oh, well, they've got to do a hundred more customer interviews, but Antoine nailed it from the beginning. It's no more than 10 to 15
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you do them right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The the crazy part is that most people don't do it right? So that depth that Antoine was getting at
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's the people who are at the top of their game in this know how to do that most don't. Which is why you have to do a wide cast of effort and research because there's a lack of precision in your targeting of who you're talking to, what you're asking them and what you're trying to learn. But if you get it right, it covers way. More of the use cases than you could ever believe or imagine.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I don't mean this just for startups. I'm talking about Major Fortune, 500 companies as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And and I'll explain more about how this is in theory, because I have receipts and evidence of what I'm I'm claiming but I just thought I would give you all that that mental model and that carrot to be incentivized by. Because if you trust our process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you will be able to conduct a series of interviews around 15 people, and within 2 weeks the insights you have will
Neal Sáles-Griffin: stand more powerfully than any survey you could ever admit to or focus group you could run.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's my promise to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Antoine. Paria. I want your questions or comments. But here's what I'm gonna ask. It's 1111.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's come back at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's take 4 and a half
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or let's take 4. Let's take 4 min, so let's come back at 15.
Antoine: Can I just say one thing because I want to underline one thing you said before this gets full.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But let break begins. Yeah, but you keep going. That's why I'm here.
Antoine: Yeah, yeah, no, no. I want to underline the whole like this will ask you thousands of interviews. And they're right, too. But we're talking about 2 different kinds of interviews. That's the- the point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, interesting. Yeah. Well, I would. I would almost. I would use it as an opportunity to teach the Vc. Though. Like to be honest, I've seen it like this like you think it's important for me to interview a hundred customers. Tell me why, let's talk about it. And then they tell you, and they go. Well, here's what I learned from talking to these users like there's a whole way to do it. It's yeah. I got you.
Antoine: Perfect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Go to the bathroom. Y'all do something, you know. Take a second. Do some jumping Jacks
Neal Sáles-Griffin: people need breaks good. 1 point, some music.
Antoine: I was. I was furiously waiting for the base camp inter in invitation, and then
Antoine: can you hear it?
Antoine: Oh.
Antoine: I need. I need to fill in the roster. You guys, said the roster is 2, 28. It's 2, 27. Where do you want me to fill in the roster?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Wait. 228227. What do those numbers mean?
Chloe Lannert: Antoine. The roster is due by Friday, and we're gonna get everyone in base camp. Once the roster is filled out. If you want early access. The roster takes 5 min to fill out.
Antoine: No, no, no, no, no, no, no! What I meant is the trigger to get the base camp invitation is for us to have filled in the roster, which I should know, because you very
Antoine: communicated that, Chloe. But I'm so bad I read it, and I kind of I didn't
Antoine: register, and so I was looking for my base camp invitation and didn't know why I wasn't receiving it. And then I realized that it's because I didn't fill in the roster.
Antoine: That's it. I am not asking anything
Antoine: just saying like, it's because it's 2 20 February 28.th Sorry
Antoine: the deadline I had scheduled to do it later. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No worries. I understand it's all good.
Ankur Toshniwal: Timing of these is rough. It's my time coding time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where are we? Are we breaking your flow right now?
Ankur Toshniwal: I mean like it. It's it's like I try to be. Really. I try to be like pre scheduled. I think in the past I've not I. I do a lot better, but like set like a 16 h
Ankur Toshniwal: setting up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean.
Ankur Toshniwal: Times, and like the the Pre. The previous. Honestly Monday was like when you got you or Tuesday you had the 1st day.
Ankur Toshniwal: I. We saw the thing later, but like I could have come. And I was like dude. I have so like, I don't wanna miss this because I have high energy. And this is when I can focus and stuff. And so I'm getting used to it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, well, yeah. And and we'll we'll make it clear, because we design our program
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with flow in mind for each of you, since most of the people at all of our companies are technical. You guys are doing something, you know, generative or productive and technical. Most days of the week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the only times that you should expect to make a trade off there is when we're in person immersive.
Ankur Toshniwal: Of course, of course, I mean, like, you know, that's why I think like, for both Andrew and I were like in person would be different. Right? We were. We were like, Hey, we want to get this stuff out before we go. We want to do our product on launch. We want to get out
Ankur Toshniwal: before we get there in person. So we're we're just like cranking on that. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, welcome back, folks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I will. I will treat a video on as like a return indicator. Here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we'll jump back in and I'll do my thing as quickly and as substantively as I as I can.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool. Cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But no, I'm looking forward to this, you guys. You you guys are bringing a lot of ammo.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it'll be fun to hear what you all have to say in response to what I'm about to to start with. So let's see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm just gonna go, I think, and I think when
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the other folks return they can watch the recording if they miss anything important.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So let's get started.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My goal right now and over the next week. And some change
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is I'm gonna explain how jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My little label for this customer discovery work that we're gonna do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's gonna help you all with discovery, innovation, and help you drive decisions not just with pricing, but with many other aspects of your business product in particular.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: In short, it's compelling you to dig deeper about why people are buying what you're selling.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and why people buy anything
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so like, I said, you can interrupt me. Ask me anything like you. I love that you're using the raise hand feature that's awesome. But even if you just want to unmute and speak up really quick, that's also cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want to 1st share a few quotes because you all are about to go through mentor madness.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're gonna meet some really smart people who know a lot of stuff who are very successful, who built and exited companies who invest in companies write 1 million dollar checks. Blah blah! Blah. So you're gonna meet these people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I have compiled some of the notes from the previous sex stars programs
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what they say to me afterwards about you. And this is gonna happen again. But I hope it happens less every single time we run. Mentor madness. Here are the quotes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Use storytelling of current customers, experiences to help sell the product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't chase. Your customers, understand your customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: focus less on sales until you know your customers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: stop building out technology, focus on the business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: stop thinking of company as a technology start thinking about it as a problem you're solving.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: too obsessed with product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hit the brakes on the tech, dev work on the business and storytelling immediately before continuing to work on the tech.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sharpen the story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This has helped so many of our past founders succeed, and regardless of this conversation we just had, and all of your expertise.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Never a time has passed where that feedback doesn't bubble up in some way, shape or form from our mentors
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to founders that I choose to invest in to go through my program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a few examples of some companies that I think are the most representative of success with respect to trusting this process. Zest is a company that went through Techsar, Chicago. Few years ago. You're gonna meet
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this founder tomorrow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's 1 of my special picks
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where I get him disproportionately involved in my programs because of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how much I thought he benefited from techsars, and how much I think his willingness to help all of you now will put you at an extreme advantage, so he'll be involved throughout our program. But starting tomorrow
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and, by the way, that's Jake. So I I took a screenshot of their team pages to show you this, the squad, because these 5 people were literally in your shoes in a in a in a meeting like this a couple of years ago, going through one of our techstars programs. And they come a really really long way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's gone so far as to get. You know Jason Calcannis on this cap table. He's crashing in this room here, visiting California to pitch it. Sequoia, like he's doing really well with his business. And it's 1 of my favorite examples of of business, because, like, I hated his business and so did everyone else.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's a food business. It's helping like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Gen. Z. Cook, I'm like yuck. I don't want to do that. I'm not excited about that. That sounds like a horrible idea. So you came into my program. No revenue ended my program. 3 K Mrr. Not exciting
Neal Sáles-Griffin: now. It's very exciting. Now that they're I think they're maybe between 50 and 60 K Mrr. They've raised over 3 million dollars. They're raising another round soon. They're crushing it, and they're beating all of the expectations everyone had of them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And that's the kind of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: turnaround story that I like to tell and demonstrate to go. If you follow the process, it can tend to work out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: another one. That's a really good one. This is an Og company. This is the very 1st one of the very 1st investments I ever made. So back in 2020, 19, real crafter they applied jobs to be done and customer discovery work early on came into my program, I think, of similar Mrr. 3 or 4 KA month they were making, and I think they're steadily around there. They're a slow business. They're not like raising capital or anything like that. So they're more Bootstrap. But they're, you know, 5 digit, Mrr now, too, and doing quite well
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then there's the big dog. So this company nutrisense is my most valuable company to date on paper.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So out of the 116 now companies I've invested in. This is the only one right now where on paper it's worth over 100 million dollars. There's a couple that are close, but this one's worth over 100 million dollars right now. And you're gonna get to know nutrisense. The founders always participate in all my programs. They come back. They teach you fundraising. They teach you how they built this business. They teach you their techniques for selling and getting to 100 k arr. So you're going to get access to all that information and get to know these founders. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when they went through techstars in my program
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they missed a lot of this information. They weren't as open or involved with jobs to be done in customer discovery because they were so busy selling their product. They were like bagging things and and shipping them out and getting my interns and associates to help them. And so they were so focused on sales that they couldn't take the time to do the customer discovery work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: However, some of the people I'm going to introduce you to who taught me these techniques.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They ended up having to hire
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to help them with it later, and they paid a lot of money for those people to do it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're talking
Neal Sáles-Griffin: an uncomfortable amount of money like the kind of money that you all want to raise. And I'll just say this, if you trust my process now, I might save you some of that money.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you will need to invest capital to like. Get these insights as you grow and scale, whether that's in the form of people, your own time or external, you know, support.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So might as well trust me now, so that we can build a business together. Great. And I can just like, get this done for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool, and my last example of a business which I really like is bloom filter. So bloom filter. Last year, I think, closed the 7 million dollar round
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they again were one of our rejects, meaning like a lot of people on my screening committee. Didn't like the business. Didn't think the business made sense. I bet on them, anyway, because I'm a software guy. And I saw the value of what this product could do, but had to trust the founder because they didn't have anything yet, and now they have a real product and are and are thriving.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But what was cool is like. I use this for the last San Francisco class. And I went to the website. And I realized it's still the same product. But they changed some of the copy on their homepage since I last presented this. So this is what it said. Then static reporting can't tell you why Boom Filter can. And now it says.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: dare to open the black box of your sdlc process. So I like the chiseling of language and value proposition, and has things evolve
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we'll be doing this exercise with all of you as well. I'll be doing home page analysis for everybody, and we'll talk about whether you're speaking to the right person when I show up on your homepage or not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But yeah. So these are all good examples of my companies that I've taught jobs to be done to that develop serious, you know, success based on it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there's also some other companies that you may have heard of that have applied these same techniques.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 3 of of many, many hundreds, others that we could pull up. But I know for a fact, these 3 businesses have implemented some of these techniques and work with people that I work with to do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So alright
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I called out what I want our past companies to benefit from from having done this, some of you will. Some of you won't end up going all the way with these techniques. One thing I will add, though, is that, regardless of whether you decide to take me seriously an hour later.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll always be there for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what I'm going to talk about during these sessions is immortalized
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in basecamp. I have a whole recipe of every step I recommend you take to do this process effectively.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so, no matter when you choose to pay attention to this, or when you want to get serious about it, I'll be ready.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And there's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a whole set of things that I'm asking you here, but if you pay attention at the bottom
Neal Sáles-Griffin: completion criteria, so there's a final step here that synthesizes all the work that I've asked you to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Once you complete that final step. There's some detail in the notes section of that to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that unlocks that 2 h meeting with me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: every program I get, maybe 2 or 3 companies that pull it off. If that it's never everyone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I will say that if you get through this and you go pro.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would love to work with you to go even further.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's how you unlock a deeper dive with me to like. Take this further. So kick back, relax. Take this information in, ask questions. It's recorded if you want to take notes because it helps you great. But I don't want you to stress about anything. I'm gonna share right now, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you've got me for the rest of your life to get better at this, as you so choose
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool. Alright. So the origin of this you know I've been investing since 2,008. I've been building businesses since 2,006
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in those con. Many conversations I've met with thousands of founders and companies now over the years. One thing that always happens is founder. You meet at an event, or something like that, and they go. What do you do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and or what are you working on, or what's your business? And immediately you all start talking about what your business does
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? One business does this. So we do this. But some of you did a great job of this already, but the whole notion is that you cut off people talking about their product and what it does, and all these features and aspects, and said, tell me a story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who is it that we help? Who is it that you help, and what do they need? Help with?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? Give me that contract. It's a very subtle thing, but it's an important thing, and I want all of you to default to storytelling as you introduce your business in some way, shape or form and empathizing with who you're talking to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Even Vcs. Don't want you to cut through the bullshit and just tell them what your your solution is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: slow them down and educate them about how important it is that you address your user or customers needs first, st and how you think and talk about it as the company's leader.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So whether it's investors, whether it's acquiring customers figuring out what to build next for your product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: understanding the progress of your users and customers is the most important thing. So yes, we're in the era of AI.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not an AI expert, but I'm technical, and I'm having fun with the tech, just like many of you and some of you are experts far more than me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My value proposition in this program isn't that I'm going to be the answer to all of your AI needs and questions and implementation of technology. That's why we're in San Francisco. We'll take advantage of that and get other people involved. What I'm good at, which will always be important, no matter what technologies are important in the world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is businesses have to make money and to make money. You have to have customers to have customers. You need to understand what they need and build the technology that actually addresses their needs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's where we're gonna get this done for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So jobs to be done is my product of secret weapon. And the basic premise is, people don't buy products or services. What do they do, folks?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's a prompt for you, not rhetorical.
Antoine: Problems.
Ankur Toshniwal: Painkiller.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They saw.
Trina Das: He's so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they don't buy products or services. What do they do?
Trina Das: They solve their problems like they.
Ankur Toshniwal: They buy the solve problems.
Anthony De Silva: They make progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, Anthony, you got it. So they hire them to make progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not buying a product or service.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm hiring a product or service to do a job for me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm gonna slow this down because I I this is like it. These words seem simple and these ideas seem intuitive.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but it's not as simple as it might sound.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because I know people who I look up to and respect, who still don't understand these 2 slides
Neal Sáles-Griffin: buying a product or service is not the same as hiring a product or service to do a job for you to make progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when people look at this, and they go yeah jobs to be done. That's just like another way of saying what the problem is right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I say, No, what is the higher.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what is the job?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Outcome and output are 2 different things.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the out. Oh, look at my balloons! The outcome
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is the actual benefit, the output
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is the is the externalization, right? The the action that's taken, the solution that's used and then done. But in it being done, how do I benefit?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one way to materialize this and the foundation of this theory and and framework comes from a very, very simple reference, which is, people don't want to buy a quarter inch drill.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do they want to buy?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are we buying.
Ankur Toshniwal: Labor.
Meg Hall: Ability to screw something into a wall easier.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Exactly right. I want a whole.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the whole notion is that, like I'm not, I don't want a drill.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want what the drill does for me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And in tech, especially in Silicon Valley, especially as mostly technical founders, we tend to think of ourselves as drill sellers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're out here selling drills, and this is what they need. They need drills.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the way I want you all to talk is in the spirit of why I need to use a drill in the 1st place. And is this enough? By the way, like, they want a whole? Yeah, that's what people want. When they buy drill. They want a hole, or do we have to go a step further? Here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: go ahead, Antoine.
Antoine: So I love it.
Antoine: Question for you. There's there's a little bit of distance. There's the drill that digs the hole that allows the the thing to go into the hole, and the the thing to be to hang properly, and your house to be beautiful, for example.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You mean, like these, like these these posters that I wanted up on my wall to motivate me to be a successful startup founder.
Antoine: Yes, exactly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes. Okay. Good. Yeah.
Antoine: And I I guess the question for for you is.
Antoine: what is the you know you can go very far, you know I want life satisfaction.
Antoine: Well, this one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you and I are doing it together right now. So my my slides right now you have no idea this is very Meta. But you're actually helping me teach this right now, as we have this conversation, as you say, what you're saying. So I put this up for a reason in anticipating what you were. Gonna say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: why do people put up motivational posters?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm taking it further, we started with the drill.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now we got a hole.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now we got motivational posters about startups and being successful. Why am I doing that?
Meg Hall: Remind them to be focused.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? Right? I I wanna be productive. I want to be focused. I wanna get shit done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, Antoine, you've heard of the 5 wise.
Antoine: Yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 5 wives. Right? Yes, you can go deep, and you get to the point where you ask why? Enough.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you're questioning your existence. You know what I mean. Like you get to the point where you you've gone too deep. It's it's too ethereal. Right now you're you're questioning reality. So you have to call it at some point. I couldn't agree with you more. And you're getting exactly to the point that I want to make here, which is. Yes, you need to dig deep, but if you go too deep you go nowhere because you'll just end up getting stuck.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so you have to call it at some point to understand the need. There's a nuance right? The drill does many jobs. One of them is the whole. One of them are many other things that it can do, understand the various jobs that it does, the job that the person you're trying to sell to needs it for and contextualize things for their need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there are many different jobs. You could hire a drill to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. There are layers to understanding this framework and these techniques, but it starts with the basic premise of I don't want to drill. I want a hole. What do you want to hold for? Let's talk about it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, so this can be visualized in in an even simpler way. Every single one of you have some b 2 b customer that you want to acquire who's in this situation right now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that you just haven't found talked to or closed yet.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there's something that they want, and somewhere they want to be that they're not
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yet, and your job might be to help them get there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's their it's their circumstance.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it's the idea of a better or new way that they're striving towards, that you're gonna help them get to. And it's their struggling moment that they're trying to wrangle right now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to reach that better place.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What role do we fit in this equation in your view
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right now? Your business isn't quite visualized here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or unless you think you're the light bulb.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Antoine, go ahead. Yeah. Well, dude, just unmute, like you're you're we're, I mean, yeah, I like it.
Antoine: Bridge. Let's put the bridge in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 100%. Put the bridge in. Yes, and I I will give you the bridge. Let me just go ahead and I'll cheat, and I'll give you the bridge right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where's my bridge?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My bridge is hidden
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. Well, there's a bridge somewhere, and you're gonna get it. But we haven't built it yet. That's like, I think, at the end of my final lecture. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let's keep going.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So jobs key understanding why your customers are making the choices. They make
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the 80 20 Pareto principle. It's not a hard and fast rule, but it it's it's directionally correct.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's your bridge found it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's you guys. And I think too often we think of ourselves as a light bulb or as the answer. And instead, we're merely the pathway that customers take to get to where they want.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the the dose of humility that all of us need to adopt as entrepreneurs and founders of great, hopefully thriving, successful companies has to start right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Very often. I see. I see most founders talk about themselves
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the surface and above level meaning. You're talking about the symptoms of your customers challenges you're talking about the problems that they have. But the root causes is ultimately what I'm trying to teach you all to dig into and understand whether or not you leverage those overtly in the form of marketing or sales or copy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you need to understand the underlying root causes. Even if you're leveraging this other information, to get your point across and to get your customers over the door. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm I'm tracking your faces now because I need to see the genuine reactions. Who has seen this video?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Chris? Chloe, Antoine? Anyone else? Sylvia Trina seen it?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anyone else. All right, a majority of you have not. And that's good. That's fine.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My ask is Trina, Antoine and Chris.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You all know what's coming, because I'm gonna play this video for them. It's like 4 and a half minutes. I'm gonna pause it and do a little bit of narrative at a few points to break some things down, but I need you all to humor me. So if you need to. If you feel like this is a waste of your time for 5 min feel free to like, do something, but otherwise I'd love for you to stick around and and join as I played this but we've got to start here, because this is the origin.
Antoine: Yeah, no, no, I love it. I'm just going to. I'm interested. But I I need to eat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Go get some food but for everyone else I'm gonna play this video for you right now, and we have to talk about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Let me pull this up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Share a different screen.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There it is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Share, sound, optimize for video sharing share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. Can you see it.
Chloe Lannert: Alright, and if you can't hear it, shout it out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hi! My name's Clay Christiansen. I'm a professor at the Harvard Business School.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I brought with me a set of puzzles all related to innovation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We decided that the way we teach marketing is at the core
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of what makes motivation difficult to achieve the most helpful way. We've thought of it so far
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that we actually hire products to do things for us
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and understanding what job we have to do in our lives for which we would hire a product is really the key to cracking this problem of motivating customers to buy what we're offering.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I wanted just to tell you a story about a project we did for one of the big fast food restaurants.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They were trying to goose up the sales of their milkshakes. They had just studied this problem up at the Gazoo they brought in customers who fit the profile of the quintessential milkshake consumer, and they'd give them samples and ask, Could you tell us how we can improve our milkshakes, so you'd buy more of them. Do you want it? Chocolatey or cheaper, chunky or chewier?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm already gonna pause it so what he just said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does that not sound like, I think, Andrew, I think I heard Andrew describe this when you had your conversation with your customer like, how do you want it? Do you want it? Chocolate or chewier
Neal Sáles-Griffin: crunchier? What are the things that you need? Right? This is the conversation I I see most founders early stage have.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what's beautiful about this video is it's never gotten old. I've been showing this video for 15 years to people. And it's never not been relevant to share, because there's so many subtle things in just 4 min of of conversation that you hear from Professor Clay here that I think will unpack and and parallel over to your situation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They get very clear feedback. They would then improve the milkshake on those dimensions, and it had no impact on sales or profits whatsoever.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one of our colleagues went in with a different question on his mind, and that was.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I wonder what job arises in people's lives that caused them to come to this restaurant to hire a milkshake.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we stood in a restaurant for 18 h one day and just took very careful data. What time did they buy these milkshakes? What were they wearing? Were they alone? Did they buy other food with it? Did they eat it in the restaurant or drive off with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It turned out that nearly half of the milkshakes were sold before 8 o'clock in the morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hold up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How weird is that, guys?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do you think's going on
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for those who don't know? By the way, some people have watched this video, if you have have not watched this video, I want you to speak up. Yeah, okay.
Ankur Toshniwal: I guess would be they were hungry, and they wanted a breakfast or something, I don't know like they're they. And then the milkshakes filling. It's sweet and delicious. I don't know.
Meg Hall: Are they adding it to their coffee?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is crazy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Go ahead, Jopnet.
Japnit Ahuja: I was like, maybe like a pick me up right in the morning, like almost like coffee.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any other guesses.
Paria: Cheaper. Early in the morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Same price all day long.
Paria: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do you all know what restaurant Clay's talking about?
Ankur Toshniwal: At Mcdonald's, probably. Is it like one of the.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mcdonald's hired him to do research on their customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He'll never like that. That's that's like I'm saying it again to the family here confidentially or whatever. But it's implied.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What? What fast food restaurant he's talking about. This is Mcdonald's. This is real.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, this is the this is the origin of this idea. I hope you understand there's a few other examples that I think are helpful, but Mcdonald's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: half of their customers are buying the milkshakes before 8 o'clock in the morning
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what the heck is going on, guys.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So normally, I've been teaching this, you know, I teach in college and grad school. So when I teach in college you know what they guess.
Meg Hall: That they're hungover.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Late night. Yeah, it's a total late night vendor recovery situation that's like their head immediately goes there. That's how they think, for sure.
Japnit Ahuja: Maybe.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool, alright. Well, who's saying it? Go ahead, Japna.
Japnit Ahuja: Is it because of kids like going to school.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hmm! Good guesses good guesses. So here's what was happening even at Mcdonald's. What you all are saying is what was being brought up. They're like, oh, what is it like like? It might be this, it might be that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But let's let's go deeper. Let's find out the people who bought them were always alone. It was the only thing they bought, and they all got in the car and drove off with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now we have more context.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They were alone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They drove off with it, and it was the only thing that they bought.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now the mystery is starting to unravel.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so to figure out what job they were trying to hire it to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We came back the next day and stood outside the restaurant so we could confront these folks as they left milkshake in hand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they did 18 h of research interviews. The day before they found out some weird stuff. They realized that they didn't know everything that they needed to know. So they changed their research criteria to talk to the people who are actually buying the milkshakes at the drive through.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's an evolution and a refinement of screening criteria which we will get to more later.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and in language that they could understand, we essentially asked.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: excuse me, please, but I got to sort this puzzle out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What job were you trying to do for yourself that caused you to come here and hire that milkshake
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so in language that they could understand is the important qualifier there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So in your mind, you're like, you think he just walked up to me. What job did you hire this bookshake to do? He didn't do that. They asked very thoughtful, unique, nuanced, personal questions that allowed them to very conversationally get to know that information. So he's giving you all a hint that this whole language of Job is not meant to be used for the outside world or for the people you actually talk to. This is internal for the researchers, for us to go apply the right packaging around to talk to our potential customers about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right. So in language that your customers can understand, ask them what job
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they were hiring, the thing that you're studying or researching them around to do. And for many of you it might be existing customers, because most of you do have customers, which is great, but for those of you who don't, or for those of you who are trying to expand. You probably need to also research competitors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: people who've hired other solutions. And you're not only interviewing people who've bought your product. But you're also interviewing people who've purchased other products.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they'd struggle to answer. So we'd then help them by asking other questions like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, think about the last time you were in the same situation, needing to get the same job done. But you didn't come here to hire a milkshake. What did you hire.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That was for you, Chris.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what Clay just said, what you asked earlier in the chat about?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, what happens if no one's ever done this, like no one has, there's no solution like this before. It's like, okay, well, have they had the problem before?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And if they've had the problem before, but not your solution. What did they hire instead?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a question for all of you to ask. So if you feel like your potential customer hasn't purchased anything like what you're offering.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're sacrificing something to not make progress in that category right now go find out what it is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, as we put all of their answers together. It became clear that they all had the same job to do in the morning, and that is, they had a long and boring drive to work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they just needed something to do while they drove to keep the commute interesting. One hand had to be on the wheel, but somebody had given them another hand, and there wasn't anything in it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they just needed something to do while they drove.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They weren't hungry yet, but they knew they'd be hungry by 10 o'clock, so they also wanted something that would just cool down there and stay for their morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Good question, what do I hire when I do this job. You know I've never framed the question that way before, but last Friday I hired a banana to do the job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Take my word for it, never hire bananas.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're gone in 3 min. You're hungry by 7 30,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you promise not to tell my wife I probably hire donuts twice a week, but they don't do it well, either. They're gone fast. They crumb all over my clothes. They get my fingers gooey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sometimes I hire bagels, but, as you know, they're so dry and tasteless. Then I have to steer the car with my knees while I'm putting jam on them, and then if the phone rings. We've got a crisis.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I remember I hired a snickers bar once, but I felt so guilty. I've never hired snickers again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But let me tell you, when I come here and hire this milkshake.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It is so viscous that it easily takes me 20 min to suck it up. That thin little straw.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who cares what the ingredients are? I don't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All I know is, I'm full all morning, and it fits right here in my cup, holder.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, it turns out that the milkshake does the job better than any of the competitors
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which in the customer's minds are not Burger King Milkshakes, but it's bananas, donuts, bagels, snickers, bars, coffee, and so on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I hope you can see how, if you understand the job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how to improve, the product becomes just obvious.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right, let's talk about that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: any quick reactions or comments before I I guide our our conclusion here for day. One.
Ankur Toshniwal: Awesome, very cool. Thank you for sharing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, of course, man, we're just getting warmed up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But hopefully that that does the job for you, right it. It illuminates the idea that I'm trying to get at here. I'm going to give you the whole story at the beginning.
Vivian: Very cool. But now I'm like, Okay, what's the job that I'm trying to hire for
Vivian: putting it into? My, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, well, you know another prompt for you, Vivian, and then all of you is to go well instead of Burger King, because if you're Mcdonald's. Most of you are going well, my competition is Burger King.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But in this story, as you heard, the higher was Milkshake.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the competitor was banana, Bagel donut snickers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what are those for you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's it's not just the one to one website that looks kind of like yours with features like your product or app. And instead, it's the things that your current potential customers are willing to tolerate as trade-offs instead of being your customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want to help each and every one of you get to the bottom of that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the great mystery here, cool, alright. So we're gonna build off of this knowledge a little bit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I added a new slide that I've never incorporated before in this lesson. And that's to convert everybody in this room for the next few minutes into either. You choose a side.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're on Mcdonald's corporate executive team, and you're the head of marketing. You're the head of sales.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I want to start with my head of marketing people. Whoever wants to be a head of marketing at Mcdonald's.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You just got research from Harvard business school professors about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: why milkshakes are being purchased before 8 o'clock in the morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do we do, head of marketing to address this new insight.
Japnit Ahuja: where I live. There's like a board which says, tired of driving while you could be home by now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, I don't want to know about where you live. You're there.
Japnit Ahuja: Oh!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're the head of marketing at Mcdonald's. You're telling me what to do. We? We are going back in the past like 20 years, but.
Japnit Ahuja: Yeah, maybe this is good roadside board saying, like, tired of driving, grab a milkshake.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Grab a milkshake.
Japnit Ahuja: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So so you're telling me as a head of marketing Mcdonald's that we're gonna promote milkshakes in the morning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, alright interesting.
Ankur Toshniwal: I I would maybe focus on the like the the parts of the milkshake that are, you know,
Ankur Toshniwal: that that go into that insight. So you know, either the number of I don't know. Calories might be a little tricky, because that might make people go the other other way, but if they're trying to replace
Ankur Toshniwal: donuts and other breakfast things where people are like, hey, like we want something that's filling right filling and takes time, or like, you know, like maybe market it in like a cup holder. Right? So it's clear that it can be on the go market.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So contextualize the the.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, put it with, like, you know, obviously put it in in like the sun. So it's in the morning. And then all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Awesome.
Ankur Toshniwal: Also show, like, maybe the calories. So it's equivalent to. I don't know that it's tricky, because if it's too many calories, it's not gonna work. But if it lands into the right spot where people are paying attention.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't put sugar. Just put calories.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What you're saying is you're drawing from the insight. So we received a report at the Executive Board for Mcdonald's, and we got these insights from Harvard Business School about these customers and what they need and why they're hiring it. And you're incorporating those into your idea for how to present and reach them, which I love.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's hear more.
piyushverma: I would, I think, go into the experience of how they are
piyushverma: picking the cup at the drive through and
piyushverma: whether it perfectly fits the, you know car, the holder in the car.
piyushverma: So I would also probably talk about
piyushverma: that a bit like how easy it is to to to get inside the car, and it doesn't spill while driving.
piyushverma: And yeah, I mean, if it doesn't spill while driving, it's it's a major problem solved
piyushverma: for them, and how the the cup is perfect. You know, perfectly sized.
piyushverma: Probably something along these lines.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, Meg.
Meg Hall: Yeah, I would. A couple of things. One is, I'd make it more socially acceptable to eat or drink milkshakes in the morning by making like a coffee, flavored milkshake, or like a donut, flavored milkshake or pancake milkshake, and put.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Wait a second. You're you're you're you're are you on the product team? Are you on the marketing team?
Meg Hall: I'm on the marketing team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. But you're gonna you're gonna tell the product team that they need to build this out.
Meg Hall: Yeah. Yeah. And then I also would look at all this. The touch points and the steps of like when they're like, whatever they're going through the drive through like, what are the signage that they're seeing and things like that, and find a way that on the more morning menu to promote it more during those times that they're going through those steps.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Absolutely.
Meg Hall: Through the purchase process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Aria.
Paria: Buy one, get the second one with 50% off.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, got it. We're just flipping milkshakes. Now, we want you to have 2 milkshakes, or like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: too. But okay.
Paria: Like, take one free, like simple coffee. Something like that. Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: I would also add, probably, especially if it's on the go. You know about maybe some level of if people care about it. Reusability, hey? Like your straws are, you know, are made of compost, compost, friendly stuff, because you know that you know, there's at least some group I don't know if that's necessarily demographic that is driving through. But maybe some people make decisions based off of, hey like, do I need? Is it? Am I like hurting the environment or whatever to actually.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where? Where is that? In our findings.
Ankur Toshniwal: Well, I mean, I think a part of it is driving through. I mean, you're right. It's not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm I'm hearing you insert your own assumptions about you think that they need.
Ankur Toshniwal: Sure, sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, which is, we all do it. I'm just giving.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But but I'll just say, like, that is one of the the cautionary notes of this process right? There's the information we got.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then there's what we do with that information. And there's what we do with all of our own
Neal Sáles-Griffin: assumptions that we're inserting as we make these decisions. Right? Some good, some not so good. But that's fair. I I do want the world to to stick around for us. So.
Ankur Toshniwal: We're on the.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Same page. There.
Ankur Toshniwal: Stand by my 1st thing. Calories, sun.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, yeah, yeah, no, it's good. It's good. It's good and then we've got, I think, Vivian Antoine and anyone else, and then we'll switch over to another lane real quick.
Vivian: As a marketer like I would change my messaging, and I would start testing that and then find out if there is a subgroup of people. Who is it a certain type of person? Or is there an audience that could be that could be swayed into doing that? And are there other situations like going on road trips? Or maybe, if they're driving home at the end of the day, why are they not buying milkshakes, then and trying to understand that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Good. Okay. Antoine.
Antoine: I would rename small medium large 1530, 45 min commutes, and I would advertise on the on, the on the the cup.
Antoine: Kind of.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Clever.
Antoine: Some sort of kind of what's the next item from.
Antoine: You're going to buy when you when you're when it's something like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's really interesting. Mark.
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: I'd probably just I I probably agree with that, and I would try to make it more like
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: promote that. It's very fast and get it, because usually Mcdonald's you can get things pretty fast. So maybe like it's easier to get, and also that maybe we may thicken it or like
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: it's thicker, or something, or.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh!
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: And also.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now you're on our product team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is exactly what I wanted to do. So I'm I'm grateful to you. So we're switching to product very briefly for a couple of minutes. So now we're on the product side. We talk about marketing, Antoine. That was probably one of the most clever ideas. I've heard. By the way, I've heard anyone suggest that all these years that was cool. But now, what do we do about the product? I heard Mark just say we're gonna make it thicker. Why make it.
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: I was saying, I was gonna say promoted as being thicker, and then also, like as a marketing fit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Tomorrow.
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: Also like cause.
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: I think it was like one of the things people were talking about like they wanted, like the thickness of it was the thing that made it like
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: They were in the car, and they were just waiting there for a long time, so they want it to be thicker in a way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It makes it seem more like a meal.
Mark Wong, Legaleaze: Yeah, right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So. So that's the whole idea. So this is what they did. So you all know this. All of you roughly have the age you've existed on this earth since Mcdonald's got this insight and made changes. What changes did they make?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a whole breakfast menu. There's a parfait. There are smoothies. There are products now. So if you're drinking a milkshake until you put some granola in it all of a sudden it's a smoothie like, do you see what happens as we evolve. We observe people's behavior, we adapt to it, and we make them feel better about the choice that they're making.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because we want them to make it more
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. I I'm giving a very like ham fisted example of Mcdonald's which we're dealing with. AI b 2 b, like, we're not in this category at all of being a megacorp that does fast food. But I promise you the lessons that you can extract from this story and many others that we'll get into in the next few weeks
Neal Sáles-Griffin: will translate to your businesses effectively, and I will make sure that they do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. All that being said. I'll expedite a little bit on the product, because I want to make sure we close out on time. But to to go even further. There. You can expand the product line right? So you're offering more versions of it. You're not selling milkshakes in the morning anymore. You're selling smoothies and parfaits and things like that. So when you think about your b 2 b customers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what they need, there's what they think they need. I'm gonna buy a milkshake for my long and boring commute, and then there's what would be actually great for them, or better for them, or make them feel a lot better about the choice that they want to make.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's your 1st hint at that. What I will say is, I don't know if any of you all know Clay well, but he is the co-creator of the jobs to be done. Framework and his claim to fame was originally he coined the term disruptive innovation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when people say disrupt or disruptive, and they joke about it, or they make it cliche. He's the actual academic that gave evidence to the term I read this book back, you know, when I was younger. There's a lot of wonderful examples in there of companies in the eighties and nineties that leveraged technical disruption to like build successful companies going into the.com era.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So all this being said I'm gonna jump to a slide that I was gonna prep, because I'm gonna give you all
Neal Sáles-Griffin: something to do before we pick this up on Monday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm gonna task you all with something in base camp, probably by tonight at the latest tomorrow morning. But definitely by tonight. I need to rework it today this afternoon before I ship it. But I'm gonna ask you all to complete a couple of things that I have not taught you yet.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want you all to revisit your screening criteria. For? Who you think you would interview if you were to trust me and do an interview, a round of interviews? Who would you talk to, and why.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then what would you want to learn from them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'm gonna review that information going into our next session? I'm gonna provide feedback to you all live about at least a few examples, and then from there I'll teach you all how to do this effectively next week, and then we'll talk about interview techniques and more of the this framework. But this is your sneak preview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I hope this is a good start in introducing it. I appreciate you humoring me and the long
Neal Sáles-Griffin: substantive conversation we just had as a group. Because I think you all are brilliant. I'll let you go now if anyone wants to stick around and do some encore overtime and unpack what we talked about, I'm here for it. I can always make time after these sessions to stick around. But I want you all to take your time back, since we are now at time, and I want to end on time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool.